# CosmogenicRadionuclidesEvaluation
CosmogenicRadionuclidesEvaluation refers to the Master's Thesis in thie [docs folder](/docs).
It consists of a Geant4-based model for the evaluation of cosmogenic radionuclide activities in extraterrestrial bodies.

The following sections present a brief technical description of the model. For more details, please refer to the thesis above mentioned.

For Geant4 for tutorials, please follow the instructions in the [Geant4 Official Page](https://geant4.web.cern.ch/).
For a complete and detailed step-by-step Geant4 installation, this [youtube video series](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Lxb4WZyKeCE&list=PLLybgCU6QCGWgzNYOV0SKen9vqg4KXeVL&ab_channel=PhysicsMatters) represents a valid option.

## Overview
Cosmogenic radionuclides are the interaction (spallation, neutron capture, etc.) products of the hadronic component of cosmic rays impacting interstellar matter. 
Celestial bodies are exposed to both SCRs and GCRs, resulting in the production of several cosmogenic isotopes. The production rate of a nuclide depends on the fluxes of primary (cosmic ray) and secondary (product of the interaction of primaries in the matter) particle fluxes. The measurement of cosmogenic radionuclide activities reveals the body's exposure history during about three half-lives of the radioisotopes.

In this work, a Geant4 model has been developed to evaluate the radionuclide production rates in spherical targets with a determined composition.


## The code
The code has been developed with the 10.7.03 version of the software and is based on the built-in hadronic example _Hadro06_, which has been modified to meet the physical situation we are interested in.
In order to easily access the different physics lists, the G4PhysicsListFactory class was implemented in the main script instead of the more common PhysicsList header, in which the user declares the physics to be used in the simulation.
In order to represent the CR isotropic flux, the G4ParticleGun class, which allows for generating particles from point sources, was replaced with the G4GeneralParticleSource, which provides different source surface shapes and arbitrary energy and angular spectra for the particles.

The Shielding physics list has been selected to describe the radionuclides production we were interested in for the thesis.


## Radionuclide activity calculations
By assuming the secular equilibrium, such as the balance between production and destruction of the radioisotopes, we can easily determine a nuclide activity by evaluating the production rate related to a certain GCR flux intensity.
In the folder t

For a more detailed description of the method, see chapter 4.4.3 in the [thesis](/docs).

### Energy spectrum generation
Geant4 reads the energy spectrum of the particles in the form of binned histograms, as shown in the [macro folder](/macro).
To generate the energy spectrum of the particle, use the MATLAB scripts for protons and alpha particles in the [energy_spectrum folder](/energy_spectrum).


## Simulation result analysis
The simulation produces root files consisting of histograms containing the radial distribution of the radionuclides. In order to get the radial distribution of the activities, a little further analysis is needed. This is pursued by the MATLAB code contained in the [analysis folder](/analysis), in which an example for <sup>26</sup>Al in Bennu can be found.
The MATLAB code reads the bins of radionuclides contained in the two text files, which were manually saved as text files from the root files generated by the simulation.
